---
title    : "SBML Editor's meeting 2009-11-09"
date     : 2009-11-09
summary  : " "
toc      : true
numbered : true
---

_**Editors present**_: Frank Bergmann, Mike Hucka, Stefan Hoops, Sarah Keating, Sven Sahle<br>
_**Editors absent**_: Darren Wilkinson<br>
_**Visitors present**_: none<br>
_**Location**_: Electronic video conference<br>
_**Scribe**_: Mike Hucka

This SBML Editors' meeting focused on remaining issues before SBML Level&nbsp;3 Core can be released.  The following issues are not in any specific order and may not be in the order they were discussed.


## Should info about tracker item 2017553 (delays within delays) be added?

Issue description:
: There was a past tracker item ([#2017553&mdash;Can csymbol delay reference another delay?](https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2017553&group_id=71971&atid=894711)) that at the time of L2v4 was pushed back to L3, and which we were supposed to revisit.  The item concerns what happens if the mathematical expression in a _delay_ <code>csymbol</code> contains another _delay_ <code>csymbol</code>.  Should the L3 Core specification say something about that?

Conclusions:
: We judged that the specification actually already explains enough about how delays are to be interpreted.  In the tracker item comments, Sven pointed out that circular references such as <code>b = delay(b, 5)</code> are not allowed by virtue of the fact that (in section 4.11.5) SBML rules are not permitted to be circular.  Stefan added that referencing time (which delays do implicitly) should not be considered to break the dependency loop. Sarah provided a detailed interpretation of the time delays implied by nesting delay expressions, the outcome of which is that the "current time" always ends up being the same current time and the only effect is to add or subtract to the amount of delay.  We decided that instead of adding something to the specification (which appears not to be strictly necessary) or even the recommended practices of the specification (which would be inappropriate because this does not really concern recommended practices), we would add an FAQ item about this topic.  The FAQ item can use some of the details that Sarah provided in the tracker comments.

Action items:
: (TODO) Add FAQ item regarding this topic.  No one was assigned the task.
